Over the next couple of lectures
we will add the login functionality to our website.
And in this lecture,
we will start by actually rendering out
the login screen to make it easy
for users to login.
Once more, I actually want this to be a challenge for you
so that you can actually practice some of the skills
that you've been learning.
What I want you to do is to create a
slash login route.
Then create a controller,
and, of course, a template.
And that template is really easy.
It's just some static html and we don't need
to pass any variables into it.
There's a template for that, actually,
here in the template folder.
So that should be, then, really easy for you to complete.
So pause this video and come back once you're ready.
Okay, welcome back.
I hope you completed this challenge successfully.
So here is my take on it.
Router dot get
the route is
slash login
and then we use controller dot get
login form.
So that's the route handler that I'm going to create next.
Export dot get login form
response
and here we don't need any more than just the
request and response.
Actually up here I'm seeing
that we're missing the next.
Always, when we have async functions wrapped in
catchAsync we should always specify next.
But here, all we really need to do
is to now render a login template.
So we didn't create that template just yet.
But, it's going to be called login.
So, let's say res dot status
200,
render template called
login.
Then as with all our other pages,
we actually want to give it a custom title.
For that we've always passed in an object
with the title property.
Right?
So the base template will then read that title
and put it in the title html element.
In this case, the title is simply
log into your account.
And that's it for the route handler.
Now let's go 'head,
open the login template,
select all,
copy all,
close it and create the new view in here.
Call, of course, login dot pug.
Then, pasting that code here,
and now comes again that trick where we extend
our base template.
This one extends to base file extend don't forget
that in here we need to create a block with the
exact same name as we have in the base file.
So that is content.
And with this we're actually done,
I believe.
Of course, we need to indent to make it a child
off this block.
But, that's actually it.
Now, just one more thing that we need to do
is to actually set a link to the login page
so that we can actually access that.
Right now, the login and sign up buttons are actually
using the button element.
But like this, we cannot really specify
the href attribute.
So let's change them actually to a real link.
And in here, we can specify the href.
So this one simply points to login.
And a second one here,
the sign up we will actually not implement
so you can implement this on your own
if you feel like it.
So basically a sign up form.
But, since all that,
so the whole process of signing up is going to be
very similar to logging in,
I decided not to include that here in this section
because that would just be a lot of duplicate content
and I don't want to make the course unnecessary long.
Give this a safe,
I don't know if this now restarts the server,
actually it doesn't,
so let's save one of these java script files.
Now
this is our reference website.
Remember, that's what we want,
is this one.
Let's come to all tours
and now let's try our login route.
And, indeed, here goes our form.
Great.
Now here we can put in some email
let's say admin
dot naders
dot io.
And you see that it nicely formats
this input here whether the email address
is actually valid or not.
For example, if I don't have the extension here correct,
then it will become orange
telling me that something is wrong.
And the same thing for the password.
As long as I have less than eight characters,
this will always be red,
basically telling me that there's an error.
That now that I have eight characters,
it turns green.
And if you're interested in how to do this
kind of magic with css,
then please feel free to check out the css file that I coded
just for this course.
Anyways, of course, clicking this button here now
does absolutely anything, right?
So in the next video, we will actually really
start to implement the login functionality
actually by doing a request to our api end point
that we already created.